---

layout: post
title:  "Women in my life"
date:   2024-03-13 22:35:27 +0530

---
<p>Recent Women’s Day triggered me to think why is it that we require a day to celebrate them.?<br>
Some dates have historic importance, some have religious importance. But some dates are specially earmarked for us as a society to reflect on the issues where we are still work in progress and have a lot to improve.</p>
<hr>
I believe Women's Day to be one such date earmarked. Neither I consider myself as feminist nor anti there are things where I don't have solid opinions and like to sit back and see the larger picture instead of choosing camps.
If I see the way Indian society today works, there is a lot to improve especially in non-metropolitan cities. Having experienced living both Metropolitain and small cities society I can clearly see the stark difference in freedom, rights the women's have in these society. We might have progressed in some of these areas in large cities, but the heart of India lies in its town where there is little progress. I can remember the struggle my mother had to went through to get my sister educated from a big city.!
<hr>
My life had been most influenced by my mother, Sister and Mossi. I learnt honesty and pure heartedness from my mother. Her honesty and innocence still baffles me and inspires to keep a portion of that with me.
However, my sister taught me courage, being a stubborn she always flighted for equality and freedom! I am trying to learn that from her and standing up for oneself.
My Mossi is a wild card entry in my life, I didn't see it coming for a larger part of my life but when it did come, it actually impacted my life the most. I learnt ambition and confidence from her. She would be super happy if i would have said it to her but i don't want her to be over-confident so just writing it down here.
<hr>
If you all are thinking it's all very personal what's the point of all this?
I would argue that it's the point exactly that we all think too much and never share what matters to us. I myself didn't have the courage to explain all of these to all of them because they won't be able to understand after being beaten up by society for doing their work, they aren't used to listen praise about them for something which they and society thinks as of their duty.
As man we got certain privilege just based on our gender well there is nothing wrong with that but using those privileges is within our hands and we can choose to stand up against what's wrong and I see that's the only way we can move forward as a more equitable society.
