---
layout: post
title:  “Year 0 in corporate”
date:   2024-03-13 22:35:27 +0530
---

It’s about to be an year for me working with egov foundation. I thought writing this blog would be a good exercise for me to reflect back on my learnings and solidify them as well for those reading to hopefully learn from my mistakes.</p>

3rd December 2023 was the date when I got an offer from egov. After working my ass off for an year and seeing my friends getting hefty packages it was hard for me to make peace with with the offer I had in the hand. Alas! What choice do I had , accepting the reality was the best i could do for my mental peace.

Just before the interview, i went through the egov website to have atleast an idea what the company do ? I remember the very first and only question that was asked to me was Why egov ? Thank God I did went through the website. For those who don't know egov foundation is a philanthropy mission set up by Nilekani's to help catalyse the achievement of SDG.
If you also couldn't make sense of what exactly we do, I was in the similar situation as of you just before the interview ;) 
Even after 10 months working here i still am not sure !
<p>But this is also the fun part , there is so much to learn and everything seems so cool and exciting that it kept me awestruck for a long time.</p>
<p>I always had an inclination for doing something for my country it started from being a rocket scientist after then Indian PM APJ Abdul Kalam.<br>
But as a typical Indian middle class I ended up being an engineer. I managed to have add some offbeatness in my career by opting for chemical engineering at IITBHU.</p>

